from Lake to desert rainforest to the
Arctic plants have found a way to grow
in every ecosystem on the planet so join
us as we continue our exploration into
the quietly amazing world of plants
[Music]
cacti survive in hot and dry places and
as you may already know they do this
much thanks to growing like a blob so
they have plenty of space to store water
but what you may not know is that they
also hold their breath during the day if
they were to open their breathing holes
called stomata during the day they would
dry out so fast it would make their
heads spin so instead they only open
them at night when the Sun is down a
true weirdo of the desert is the
Welwitschia mirabilis it can live for a
thousand years but it only has two
leaves during its entire life this works
because the leaves continuously grow at
the base while they die at the tip
[Music]
if you live near one of the poles your
life as a plant is very different the
temperatures here are colder than
anywhere else even in the summer and not
only that the summer's here are way
shorter to the short growing seasons
combined with low temperatures Mary
Clark it really hard to grow here in the
Arctic
so everything grows slower and another
thing that's different up here is that
in the summer we have the Midnight Sun
which means it's light 24 hours a day
the Sun never sets and in winter we have
the polar night which means that the Sun
never Rises it's dark 24 hours a day
lawnchair grow slower than any other
ecosystems which means getting tall is
not that likely so if you look around in
the High Arctic you won't see a single
tree but if you look down you'll still
be able to find trees or in a botanical
sense anyway but the height isn't very
impressive so right now we're
technically in the middle of a forest
well it'll look like much if you look
down and look closely at it you can find
a ton of these tiny little things and
botanical wise they are trees because
they do produce wood
[Music]
an angiosperm that decided was not for
them is bamboo which is actually a type
of grass wood takes time and energy to
grow so instead they use as little
resources as possible to grow as fast as
possible since bamboo plants often grow
together each plant needs to keep up to
be able to access the Sun as a result of
this bamboo can grow for a staggering 91
centimeters a day
[Music]
Sandra grass grows on beaches which
being close to the open ocean means it
tends to be windy the leaves of the
plants can be damaged by rocks sand and
itself the leaves of the fan dry grass
is shaped like a tin roof and placed it
with silica so it can protect itself
from its environment
[Music]
within the bryophytes there's this genus
called platinum and they grow undone but
they had a problem is he done is really
hard to find so how do they make sure
their sports end up in the right place
well they created a smell that resembles
dung and that attracts flies that want
to eat or lay their eggs on dung so when
they come along the land on the capsule
and eat secretion and while they're
there
spores from the capsule will fall off
and stick to them so that the next time
the fly goes off to some dung the some
spores will fall off and right into
their ideal environment in some places
mountains are so steep that avalanches
and landslides occur but plants simply
adapt it in fact some of them depend on
the ants lights for survival during a
landslide the trees are knocked over and
the soil is mixed exposed saying soil
with few seeds in it and here there's
almost no competition for sunlight
nutrients and space so seeds come in and
soon a meadow is formed these plants
will need a lot of sunlight but without
any trees to block it they thrive seeds
from trees will also come in but it
takes them years to grow to a length
where they block the sunlight from the
rest and when they do it's probably time
for a new landslide anyway starting the
whole process over again
another testing natural Menace is
volcanoes if the ash from volcanic
eruption lingers in the atmosphere the
particles will block the sunlight and
stop the plants from doing
photosynthesis effectively killing them
however once the particles settle they
provide a lot of nutrients to the ground
and the newly solidified lava that has
cleared the previous plant life now
paves the way for the first stages of
succession surely forest fires are too
devastating to have any positives for
the plant kingdom nope not when there's
fire resistant trees Pines have tannin
in their bark which is the bitter stuff
in red wine and it turns out fire
doesn't like that very much
[Music]
some species of eucalyptus trees keep
buds protected under their bark in case
of fire and then they simply rebuild
what has been lost when the embers go
out as with the landslide when a forest
burns down you again get a lot of
sunlight down to the forest floor but
not only that
although suddent all the nutrients are
available to seeds that are most likely
to get there first are the ones that are
already there they wait in the soil
dormant until a fire kicks them into
action this group of heavy sleepers
include lodgepole pine eucalyptus
Banksia some cypress trees sequoia trees
some species of spruce and green heath
in some forests the species have adapted
to frequent fires while in other forests
a fire would be devastating so plants
are incredibly resilient but they also
have an amazing ability to adapt to
changing situations bringing life to the
toughest environments it's all part of
the fascinating world of plants
[Music]